Hail Jesus and Mary, dear subscribers of the YouTube channel of the Association "Croatia for Life".
In our video series, you can watch videos that show what we do, that is, the activities of our Association.
In this video, you will meet a young, talented and capable lady, and that is our Petra Milković.
Petra is an excellent organizer of various events of the "40 Days for Life" initiative,
as she is its director for the whole of Croatia as well as
the vice-president of the Association "Croatia for Life".
We meet Petra.
Hail Jesus and Mary, dear friends, my name is Petra Milković
and I am the president of the "40 Days for Life – Croatia" initiative.
Prayer and fasting, peaceful vigil and community outreach
are the three fundamental pillars of this initiative, on which it has rested for a dozen or more years
and on which it has been growing all this time and spreading throughout the world.
How was this initiative actually founded and how did it start?
In 2004, in a small town of College Station
in the state of Texas in the United States of America,
four friends, longtime colleagues in the fight for life,
concluded that their outcries, their protests, their petitions were not achieving anything
in order for the newly opened abortion clinic in their city to be closed.
At that moment, they decided to sit around a small wooden table
and began to pray for the Lord to tell them what and how to do next.
So, in prayer, all four received the number 40,
and we all know that the number 40 is mentioned many times in the Holy Scripture,
in many different places and in many different events throughout the life of Jesus,
both in the Old Testament and in the New Testament through many parables.
They took that number 40 as a frame and decided to keep vigil 24 hours a day in front of their abortion clinic
and pray for that clinic to be closed and for intentional abortions to stop forever in that clinic,
in that small town of theirs.
Already after the first campaign, they managed to reduce abortions by as much as 28%, according to the statistics and the data they had,
and frankly, after that first campaign, they were worn out, exhausted, they really had no more strength.
However, the news about them, about how they started such a big thing,
spread throughout the United States of America, and city by city, little by little,
people came to them wanting to start something like that in their city and that they would like to have the initiative in their city.
At that time, it was those four friends, and among them were David Bereit and Shawn Carney,
who were the founders of the initiative
and actually laid the foundations of the initiative, who decided that the initiative would be based on prayer and fasting,
a peaceful vigil and community outreach,
and decided that the initiative would hold a peaceful vigil for 40 days twice each year.
Soon, it just started to spread further and further.
Before I tell you how this initiative came to Croatia and how it spread throughout our homeland,
I will refer to the foundations of the initiative, to the three main pillars,
namely: prayer and fasting, peaceful vigil and community outreach.
The first pillar of the initiative – prayer and fasting – was not without reason taken as the foundation of the initiative.
Namely, we dedicate all our prayers and fasts through all 365 days of the year precisely to the intentions of the initiative,
so that intentional abortion in our homeland and in the whole world will stop forever.
Prayer and fasting have their foundation in the Holy Scripture
because Jesus once told us that this kind, this generation, can only be expelled through prayer and fasting.
The second pillar of the initiative is a peaceful vigil.
Twice a year for 40 days, we go out in front of hospitals and health centers, in front of abortion clinics,
not only in our homeland, but also around the world, to pray and keep vigil
as a last sign of hope for those mothers and fathers
who think they have no other choice but intentional abortion,
but as the first sign of love and mercy to those mothers, those fathers and all those
who bear the heavy wound of abortion.
Holding a peaceful vigil is associated with spring and autumn, that’s why they are called spring and autumn campaigns.
In spring, it always starts on Ash Wednesday and ends on Palm Sunday,
and the autumn campaign starts at the end of September and always ends at the beginning of November.
We are often asked why we are right in front of hospitals, health centers and abortion clinics.
Why are we not in front of the government, the city authorities, the courts, in front of the parliaments?
However, it is in hospitals, in health centers, in abortion clinics
that our unborn brothers and sisters lose their lives.
And that is why we are there to be a sign of hope and a sign of love for all mothers, for all fathers, for all medical staff,
for all those who carry the wound of abortion, for all those who need hope, to give it to them in that very place,
where we serve as the last line of defense for that mother and that unborn child.
And why do we make the local community aware of the problem of abortion?
No problem in the world right now is bigger than the problem of intentional abortion.
No crisis, no war, no earthquake, no disease
takes as many human lives as intentional abortion.
In particular, more than 50 million human lives are taken every year
where it should be safest, warmest, most sacred, under a mother's heart.
50 million of our unborn brothers and sisters annually lose their lives in that way and in that place.
In 2013, I first heard about the "40 days for life" initiative, and honestly,
at that time I did not know what it was about or how this initiative was implemented.
However, the girl who gave me the big news about the initiative came with a sentence:
Do you know that we have closed two abortion clinics in London?
I was a little confused then. I looked at her, I didn’t know what exactly it was about.
And then she explained to me that they had been praying and keeping vigil constantly for several years
as part of the "40 days for life" initiative
and asked if we in Croatia would like to have something like that.
Although I didn’t know exactly what it was about, I knew at that moment that the Lord had lit that one fire in my heart,
which I feel even today, after ten years that the initiative has existed in our homeland,
and because of which I do what I do every day, and because of which I participate in the initiative.
In the meantime, Ante Čaljkušić, the co-initiator of the initiative in Croatia,
heard about this initiative and our mutual friend brought us together to talk and see
if we could start something like that in Croatia.
I didn’t know who Ante was, and today here is one of my closest collaborators, one of my closest friends, and then,
regardless of the fact that we didn’t know each other, we decided – yes, that’s it, that’s something we want to have in our homeland.
However, when we launched the initiative, I will be honest,
we did not expect that it would be launched at such a high speed in many cities in Croatia.
In Lent 2014, we started the prayer vigil in front of the Clinical Hospital Center of the Sisters of Mercy in Zagreb.
Hospital by hospital, city by city and this pending campaign,
as well as every other, more and more cities join.
This upcoming campaign will involve as many as 38 cities throughout our homeland.
In fact, all parts of Croatia are involved in some way in this struggle, in this pro-life initiative.
And why exactly the "40 days for life" initiative?
It is effective, it is peaceful, it really has fruits and great results.
More than 160 children were saved because someone kept vigil and prayed in front of Croatian hospitals and health centers.
Those 160 children are part of more than 23,000 worldwide who have been saved so far precisely because of the initiative.
We often say that these are only the children we know about and only those children whose testimonies we have heard,
the testimonies of their mothers whom we have met.
However, we believe that there are many, many more children
and even more lives saved that we may not know about and will only find out about in eternity.
There are also a lot of immediate fruits, friendships, marriages,
some other little things that we follow and watch and witness every day.
Miracles are possible and we witness them precisely through this initiative.
What is very important to us is the salvation of every human soul.
This is what we know that is also pleasing to God, that our soul is priceless to God
and that we must fight for every soul.
We believe that by many prayers, by many fasts that are presented to the Lord with these intentions in mind,
the human heart can be changed, and we see and witness this through this initiative.
Finally, I would like to testify to you why it is important to stand right in front of hospitals and health centers,
why it is important to participate in campaigns and peaceful vigils of the initiative.
I will tell you the story of two boys who are alive today precisely because of the people
who stood in front of hospitals and health centers in the snow, ice, storm, wind and sun.
The first story is about a boy, David, whose mother has already come to the hospital for her scheduled abortion appointment.
She went inside, she was already at the door, and someone spoke to her in the hallway and said:
Well, wait a minute, are you sure about your decision?
She was really distraught, she didn’t want to have an abortion, but she thought she didn’t really have any other choice.
She didn’t have a job, she already had a little girl, her husband didn’t work either,
and she thought that an abortion was her solution.
However, the person who spoke to her said:
Well, you know, there in front of the hospital someone is praying, and waiting, and keeping vigil, and maybe they can help you.
Ivana testifies that she went outside, sat down on the sidewalk and literally pulled her hair out because she was completely afraid
and did not know what her next step was and what to do next.
However, she took heart, she turned to a single lady who was keeping vigil in front of the hospital at the time,
and today little David is alive and well precisely because that lady was at the vigil.
Another testimony that particularly pleases me is the testimony of little Juraj.
Namely, his mother saw even the volunteers two years before Juraj was conceived.
You really never know whose life you will change by being there in front of the hospital,
being there in a place where you may be insulted, where you may be listening to mockery, where you may not be so comfortable.
However, the mother of our little Juraj passed by the hospital one day to go for some tests.
And we really got on her nerves, as she tends to say it often.
She even sent us messages complaining why we were there, what we were doing there.
We then replied to her messages and she simply forgot about us,
she waved her hand at everything we argued, everything we told her.
However, after two years when she became pregnant,
with a family that did not want to help her, that did not want to support her,
with the father of the child who said that he would stand by her with any decision she made,
and with an already scheduled abortion a day later,
she remembered that two years ago she saw people praying and keeping vigil in front of the hospital.
She decided to send us a message again and see what else we can offer her
as some kind of last branch of hope that she can hold on to.
That same day we arranged to meet. She met our Dijana, who leads the Team for pregnant women "You are not alone,"
and today little Juraj is alive and healthy at three years old, and his mother and father are overjoyed to have him in their lives.
These were just two of the many magnificent stories that were written by God’s hand through this very initiative.
And that’s why I’m inviting you to get involved as a praying volunteer, like anyone else, to pray and fast for intentions of the initiative:
for intentional abortion to end forever.
That this white plague, as blessed Alojzije Stepinac called it, would end forever in our homeland.
I believe that precisely through the initiative, through prayer and fasting, peaceful vigil and community outreach,
we will see the beginning of the end of abortion in our homeland and in the world.
In this video, you met our Petra Milković.
You can see how much she does in our Association "Croatia for Life", and how big and comprehensive it is.
All this would not be possible without our praying volunteers, without benefactors
and without all those who help a child to be born.
If you want to get involved, feel free to do so –
pray, fast, donate, contact us, the contacts are in the description of this video. Thank you!